docs/checking-for-cfw.md, before:

# Checking for CFW

## Required Reading

This is an add-on section to check if your console already has a modern custom firmware.

If your console already has an arm9loaderhax or boot9strap based custom firmware, you will need to follow the instructions indicated to upgrade your setup to a modern one.

::: info

If your console has a menuhax-based CFW setup, you should [clear HOME Menu's extdata](troubleshooting-post-install), then follow all instructions on your SysNAND. You probably have a menuhax-based setup if your system version when booting without an SD card is 9.2.0-20.

:::

## Instructions

1. Power off your console
1. Hold the (Select) button
1. Power on your console while still holding the (Select) button
1. You should now see a configuration menu of some sort

## What to do next

::: tip

If your console boots to the normal HOME Menu, return to [Get Started](get-started)

:::

::: tip

If you see a Luma3DS version of 7.0.5 or lower, continue to [A9LH to B9S](a9lh-to-b9s)

:::

::: tip

If you see a Luma3DS version of 7.1, continue to [Updating B9S](updating-b9s)

:::

::: tip

If you see a Luma3DS version of 8.0 or greater, continue to [Restoring / Updating CFW](restoring-updating-cfw)

:::

::: warning

If you see GodMode9, Decrypt9WIP, Hourglass9, or Luma3DS chainloader, you held (Start) by accident and should try these instructions again with (Select)

:::

::: danger

If you see something not described by the above options, join [Nintendo Homebrew on Discord](https://discord.gg/MWxPgEp) and ask, in English, for help.

:::

Commit message:

TEMPORARY: Notice for NH links
NH server link was disabled by Discord, emergency mitigation

docs/checking-for-cfw.md, after:

# Checking for CFW

## Required Reading

This is an add-on section to check if your console already has a modern custom firmware.

If your console already has an arm9loaderhax or boot9strap based custom firmware, you will need to follow the instructions indicated to upgrade your setup to a modern one.

::: info

If your console has a menuhax-based CFW setup, you should [clear HOME Menu's extdata](troubleshooting-post-install), then follow all instructions on your SysNAND. You probably have a menuhax-based setup if your system version when booting without an SD card is 9.2.0-20.

:::

## Instructions

1. Power off your console
2. Hold the (Select) button
3. Power on your console while still holding the (Select) button
4. You should now see a configuration menu of some sort

## What to do next

::: tip

If your console boots to the normal HOME Menu, return to [Get Started](get-started)

:::

::: tip

If you see a Luma3DS version of 7.0.5 or lower, continue to [A9LH to B9S](a9lh-to-b9s)

:::

::: tip

If you see a Luma3DS version of 7.1, continue to [Updating B9S](updating-b9s)

:::

::: tip

If you see a Luma3DS version of 8.0 or greater, continue to [Restoring / Updating CFW](restoring-updating-cfw)

:::

::: warning

If you see GodMode9, Decrypt9WIP, Hourglass9, or Luma3DS chainloader, you held (Start) by accident and should try these instructions again with (Select)

:::

::: danger

If you see something not described by the above options, join [Nintendo Homebrew on Discord](https://discord.gg/MWxPgEp) and ask, in English, for help. \*\*Note\*\*: We are aware that invites are currently disabled for this server and are working to resolve this issue.

:::
