docs/index.md, before:

---
layout: home
title: "3DS Hacks Guide"
hero:
  text: "3DS Hacks Guide"
  tagline: "A complete guide to 3DS (and 2DS) custom firmware, from stock to boot9strap."
  image:
    src: /images/home-page-feature.jpg
---

::: info

Thoroughly read all of the introductory pages (including this one!) before proceeding.

:::

::: danger

<!--@include: ./_include/3ds-online.md -->

:::

## What is custom firmware?

**Custom firmware** ("CFW") is a full software modification to your 3DS, comparable to "administrator access" on a computer. It allows you to do anything that the 3DS is physically capable of doing, rather than being limited by whatever Nintendo allows you to do.

Popular uses for custom firmware include:

* Running homebrew software and games made for or ported to the Nintendo 3DS
* Bypassing the region lock, allowing you to play games from other regions
* HOME Menu customization, using community-created [themes and badges](https://themeplaza.art)
* Modification of games ("ROM hacks") through [LayeredFS](https://github.com/knight-ryu12/godmode9-layeredfs-usage/wiki/Using-Luma3DS'-layeredfs-(Only-version-8.0-and-higher))
* Save data editing, backup, and restore
* Emulation of older consoles, as well as native playback of DS and GBA games
* Installing your physical cartridges for digital use

## What does this guide install?

This guide will:
+ Install **boot9strap** and **Luma3DS custom firmware** on unmodified retail 3DS/2DS consoles
    + Luma3DS will automatically remove the region lock and allow you to run unsigned software
+ Install various pieces of homebrew software, such as a package installer, save file manager, and a homebrew app store
+ Make critical system file backups that can help avoid bricks (and recover data in the event of one)

___

::: tip

Continue to [Key Information](key-information)

:::

Commit message:

treewide: redirect support to r/3ds
NH invites are currently having issues.

docs/index.md, after:

---
layout: home
title: "3DS Hacks Guide"
hero:
  text: "3DS Hacks Guide"
  tagline: "A complete guide to 3DS (and 2DS) custom firmware, from stock to boot9strap."
  image:
    src: /images/home-page-feature.jpg
---

::: warning

We are aware that invites are currently disabled for the Nintendo Homebrew Discord server and are working to resolve this issue. For support, please visit the [r/3ds Discord server](https://discord.gg/3ds).

:::

::: info

Thoroughly read all of the introductory pages (including this one!) before proceeding.

:::

::: danger

<!--@include: ./_include/3ds-online.md -->

:::

## What is custom firmware?

**Custom firmware** ("CFW") is a full software modification to your 3DS, comparable to "administrator access" on a computer. It allows you to do anything that the 3DS is physically capable of doing, rather than being limited by whatever Nintendo allows you to do.

Popular uses for custom firmware include:

* Running homebrew software and games made for or ported to the Nintendo 3DS
* Bypassing the region lock, allowing you to play games from other regions
* HOME Menu customization, using community-created [themes and badges](https://themeplaza.art)
* Modification of games ("ROM hacks") through [LayeredFS](https://github.com/knight-ryu12/godmode9-layeredfs-usage/wiki/Using-Luma3DS'-layeredfs-(Only-version-8.0-and-higher))
* Save data editing, backup, and restore
* Emulation of older consoles, as well as native playback of DS and GBA games
* Installing your physical cartridges for digital use

## What does this guide install?

This guide will:
+ Install **boot9strap** and **Luma3DS custom firmware** on unmodified retail 3DS/2DS consoles
    + Luma3DS will automatically remove the region lock and allow you to run unsigned software
+ Install various pieces of homebrew software, such as a package installer, save file manager, and a homebrew app store
+ Make critical system file backups that can help avoid bricks (and recover data in the event of one)

___

::: tip

Continue to [Key Information](key-information)

:::
