docs/installing-boot9strap-(mset9-play-store).md, before:

# Installing boot9strap (MSET9 Play Store)

::: details Technical Details (optional)

[MSET9](https://github.com/zoogie/MSET9) is an exploit for the System Settings application developed by [zoogie](https://github.com/zoogie). It exploits a flaw where the ID1 (the second 32-character folder name inside of the Nintendo 3DS folder, inside of the ID0) can be *any* name as long as it is 32 characters. Performing a specific sequence of actions results in the console executing the instructions that are encoded into the ID1 folder name, which can be used to grant full control over the 3DS.

:::

## Compatibility Notes

::: warning

This page requires an Android phone/tablet or a Chromebook. If you have a computer running Windows, macOS, or Linux, follow [Installing boot9strap (MSET9 CLI)](installing-boot9strap-(mset9-cli)) instead. If you do not have access to any of these devices, you will need to use an [alternate exploit](https://wiki.hacks.guide/wiki/3DS:Alternate_Exploits).

:::

::: warning

On Android phones/tablets, the minimum Android version required is 6.0 (Marshmallow).

:::

## What You Need

* The following applications installed from the Google Play Store:
    * [MSET9 Installer](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=moe.saru.homebrew.console3ds.mset9_installer_android)
    * [ZArchiver](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=ru.zdevs.zarchiver)
    * If you wish, you can sideload these applications instead
* The latest release of [MSET9](https://github.com/hacks-guide/MSET9/releases/latest) (the MSET9 `.zip` file)

## Instructions

### Section I - Prep Work

In this section, you will prepare the SD card data necessary for the MSET9 exploit to trigger.

1. Insert your SD card into your phone/tablet/computer
1. Copy everything from the MSET9 `.zip` to the root of your SD card, overwriting any existing files:
    + Open ZArchiver
    + If prompted, [allow ZArchiver to access files on your SD card](/images/screenshots/mset9/zarchiver-allow.png)
    + Navigate to where the downloaded MSET9 `.zip` is located ([likely in the Downloads folder](/images/screenshots/mset9/zarchiver-zip-location.png))
    + Select the MSET9 `.zip`, then select "Extract..." ([image](/images/screenshots/mset9/zarchiver-extract-1.png))
    + Navigate to your SD card, then tap the blue 'down arrow' icon to extract the files to the root of your SD card ([image](/images/screenshots/mset9/zarchiver-extract-2.png))

    ::: info

    ![](/images/screenshots/mset9/mset9-root-layout-android.png)

    :::

1. Run the [MSET9 Installer application](/images/screenshots/mset9/mset9-setup-android.png)
1. Tap on `Select "Nintendo 3DS" Folder`, then navigate to your `Nintendo 3DS` folder on your SD card ([image](/images/screenshots/mset9/select-mset9-folder-1.png))
1. Once inside the `Nintendo 3DS` folder, tap on "Use this folder", then "Allow" if asked ([image](/images/screenshots/mset9/select-mset9-folder-2.png))
1. If `Setup MSET9` is [highlighted](/images/screenshots/mset9/setup-mset9-highlighted.png), proceed to the next step
    + If you get an error, you need to resolve before you can use MSET9. Refer to the [troubleshooting](troubleshooting-mset9)
1. Tap on `Setup MSET9` to begin the process of setting up MSET9
1. After reviewing the disclaimer, tap on `Confirm` to accept it
1. Tap on the photo corresponding to your console model, then at the bottom, pick your current firmware version
1. If you see the prompt of `Hax ID1 Created`, tap OK to continue
    + If you get an error, check the [troubleshooting](troubleshooting-mset9), then try again
    + Your 3DS will appear to lose most data / no user-installed apps on HOME Menu. This is expected. Your data will come back at a later step
1. Reinsert your SD card into your console
1. Power on your console
1. Open Mii Maker
1. Wait for your console to reach the "Welcome to Mii Maker" screen, then exit Mii Maker
    + You may see [this screen](/images/screenshots/mset9/mii-extdata.png), which indicates the necessary data has been created
    + If you just reach the normal Mii Maker screen, exit Mii Maker and return to the HOME Menu
1. Launch System Settings and navigate to `Data Management` -> `Nintendo 3DS` -> `Software` -> Reset ([image](/images/screenshots/database-reset.jpg))
    + This will not wipe any of your data
1. Power off your console by pressing the power button then tapping Power Off on the lower screen
1. Insert your SD card into your phone/tablet/computer
1. The MSET9 Installer application should automatically check if you have done previous steps properly
    + It may take a few seconds for the app to detect the SD card and react
    + If it doesn't check automatically, tap `Check MSET9 status` to check manually
    + If you get an error, check the [troubleshooting](troubleshooting-mset9), then try again
1. If the check passed, you'll see `Inject trigger file` become [highlighted](/images/screenshots/mset9/inject-trigger-highlighted.png) and you can continue to the next step. **Do not inject trigger yet.** Put your phone/tablet/computer aside for now
1. Reinsert your SD card into your console

### Section II - MSET9

In this section, you will trigger MSET9 to launch SafeB9SInstaller (the custom firmware installer).

::: danger

These instructions must be followed **EXACTLY**, so double-check EVERYTHING you are doing to avoid errors!

:::


1. Power on your console, ensuring System Settings is selected
    + If System Settings is not selected, **[hover over](/images/screenshots/mset9/hover-settings.png)** the System Settings icon using the D-Pad, power your console off, then back on
1. Press (A) to launch System Settings
1. Navigate to `Data Management` -> `Nintendo 3DS` -> `Extra Data` ([image](/images/screenshots/mset9/settings-extdata.png))
1. **Do not press any buttons or touch the screen**
1. **With the console STILL ON, and without pressing any buttons or touching the screen**, remove your SD card from your console
    + The menu will refresh and say that no SD card is inserted, which is expected
1. Insert your SD card into your phone/tablet/computer
1. Open the MSET9 Installer application
1. Tap `Inject trigger file`
    + The button should become greyed out and `Remove trigger file` become [highlighted](/images/screenshots/mset9/remove-trigger-highlighted.png)
1. Reinsert your SD card into your console **without pressing any buttons or touching the screen**
1. If the exploit was successful, you will have booted into SafeB9SInstaller 
    + If you get a red screen or the console gets stuck on a loading screen, follow the [troubleshooting guide](troubleshooting-mset9)

### Section III - Installing boot9strap

In this section, you will install custom firmware onto your console.

1. When prompted, input the key combo given on the top screen to install boot9strap
    + If a step on the lower screen has red-colored text, and you are not prompted to input a key combo, [follow this troubleshooting guide](troubleshooting-mset9)
1. Once it is complete, press (A) to reboot your console
<!--@include: ./_include/configure-luma3ds.md -->

### Section IV - Removing MSET9

In this section, you will remove MSET9 to prevent further issues. (This will not remove the custom firmware that you just installed.)

::: danger

Do NOT skip this section! If you skip it, applications may crash unexpectedly and you will encounter errors on the next page!

:::

1. Power off your console
1. Insert your SD card into your phone/tablet/computer
1. Open the MSET9 Installer application
1. Tap `Remove MSET9`
1. Close the MSET9 Installer application

<!--@include: ./_include/luma3ds-installed-note.md -->

___

::: danger

Did you follow Section IV (Removing MSET9)? That section is MANDATORY!

:::

::: tip

Continue to [Finalizing Setup](finalizing-setup)

:::

Commit message:

mset9-*: sync some text
- Particularly on-console steps don't really have any reason to be
  different between mobile and desktop versions.
- Fix some instances of 3DS to console as written on other pages while
  at it
- Minor changes to reflect that not *everything* everything is nuked
  (because some paranoid people keep asking)

docs/installing-boot9strap-(mset9-play-store).md, after:

# Installing boot9strap (MSET9 Play Store)

::: details Technical Details (optional)

[MSET9](https://github.com/zoogie/MSET9) is an exploit for the System Settings application developed by [zoogie](https://github.com/zoogie). It exploits a flaw where the ID1 (the second 32-character folder name inside of the Nintendo 3DS folder, inside of the ID0) can be *any* name as long as it is 32 characters. Performing a specific sequence of actions results in the console executing the instructions that are encoded into the ID1 folder name, which can be used to grant full control over the console.

:::

## Compatibility Notes

::: warning

This page requires an Android phone/tablet or a Chromebook. If you have a computer running Windows, macOS, or Linux, follow [Installing boot9strap (MSET9 CLI)](installing-boot9strap-(mset9-cli)) instead. If you do not have access to any of these devices, you will need to use an [alternate exploit](https://wiki.hacks.guide/wiki/3DS:Alternate_Exploits).

:::

::: warning

On Android phones/tablets, the minimum Android version required is 6.0 (Marshmallow).

:::

## What You Need

* The latest release of [MSET9](https://github.com/hacks-guide/MSET9/releases/latest) (the MSET9 `.zip` file)
* The following applications installed from the Google Play Store:
    * [MSET9 Installer](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=moe.saru.homebrew.console3ds.mset9_installer_android)
    * [ZArchiver](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=ru.zdevs.zarchiver)
    * If you wish, you can sideload these applications instead

## Instructions

### Section I - Prep Work

In this section, you will prepare the MSET9 exploit by **temporarily** creating a new HOME Menu profile with almost no user data, and then setting up that profile with only the minimum data required for MSET9 to trigger. Your existing user data will disappear, but will come back when you are finished with this page.

1. Insert your SD card into your phone/tablet/computer
1. Copy everything from the MSET9 `.zip` to the root of your SD card, overwriting any existing files:
    + Open ZArchiver
    + If prompted, [allow ZArchiver to access files on your SD card](/images/screenshots/mset9/zarchiver-allow.png)
    + Navigate to where the downloaded MSET9 `.zip` is located ([likely in the Downloads folder](/images/screenshots/mset9/zarchiver-zip-location.png))
    + Select the MSET9 `.zip`, then select "Extract..." ([image](/images/screenshots/mset9/zarchiver-extract-1.png))
    + Navigate to your SD card, then tap the blue 'down arrow' icon to extract the files to the root of your SD card ([image](/images/screenshots/mset9/zarchiver-extract-2.png))

    ::: info

    ![](/images/screenshots/mset9/mset9-root-layout-android.png)

    :::

1. Run the [MSET9 Installer application](/images/screenshots/mset9/mset9-setup-android.png)
1. Tap on `Select "Nintendo 3DS" Folder`, then navigate to your `Nintendo 3DS` folder on your SD card ([image](/images/screenshots/mset9/select-mset9-folder-1.png))
1. Once inside the `Nintendo 3DS` folder, tap on "Use this folder", then "Allow" if asked ([image](/images/screenshots/mset9/select-mset9-folder-2.png))
1. If `Setup MSET9` is [highlighted](/images/screenshots/mset9/setup-mset9-highlighted.png), proceed to the next step
    + If you get an error, you need to resolve before you can use MSET9. Refer to the [troubleshooting](troubleshooting-mset9)
1. Tap on `Setup MSET9` to begin the process of setting up MSET9
1. After reviewing the disclaimer, tap on `Confirm` to accept it
1. Tap on the photo corresponding to your console model, then at the bottom, pick your current firmware version
1. If you see the prompt of `Hax ID1 Created`, tap OK to continue
    + If you get an error, check the [troubleshooting](troubleshooting-mset9), then try again
    + Your console will appear to lose most data / no user-installed apps on HOME Menu. **This is expected.** Your data will come back at a later step
1. Reinsert your SD card into your console
1. Power on your console
1. Open Mii Maker
1. Wait for your console to reach the [Welcome to Mii Maker](/images/screenshots/mset9/mii-welcome.png) screen, then exit Mii Maker and return to the HOME Menu
    + You may see [this screen](/images/screenshots/mset9/mii-extdata.png), which indicates the necessary data has been created
    + If you just reach the [normal](/images/screenshots/mset9/mii-existing.png) Mii Maker screen, then the data already exists. Exit Mii Maker and return to the HOME Menu
1. Launch System Settings and navigate to `Data Management` -> `Nintendo 3DS` -> `Software` -> Reset ([image](/images/screenshots/database-reset.jpg))
    + This will not wipe any of your data
1. Power off your console by pressing the power button then tapping Power Off on the lower screen
1. Insert your SD card into your phone/tablet/computer
1. The MSET9 Installer application should automatically check if you have done previous steps properly
    + It may take a few seconds for the app to detect the SD card and react
    + If it doesn't check automatically, tap `Check MSET9 status` to check manually
    + If you get an error, check the [troubleshooting](troubleshooting-mset9), then try again
1. If the check passed, you'll see `Inject trigger file` become [highlighted](/images/screenshots/mset9/inject-trigger-highlighted.png) and you can continue to the next step. **Do not inject trigger yet.** Put your phone/tablet/computer aside for now
1. Reinsert your SD card into your console

### Section II - MSET9

In this section, you will trigger MSET9 to launch SafeB9SInstaller (the custom firmware installer).

::: danger

These instructions must be followed **EXACTLY**, so double-check EVERYTHING you are doing to avoid errors!

:::

1. Power on your console, ensuring System Settings is selected
    + If System Settings is not selected, **[hover over](/images/screenshots/mset9/hover-settings.png)** the System Settings icon using the D-Pad, power your console off, then back on
1. Press (A) to launch System Settings
1. Navigate to `Data Management` -> `Nintendo 3DS` -> `Extra Data` ([image](/images/screenshots/mset9/settings-extdata.png))
1. **Do not press any buttons or touch the screen**
1. **With the console STILL ON, and without pressing any buttons or touching the screen**, remove your SD card from your console
    + The menu will refresh and say that no SD card is inserted, which is expected
1. Insert your SD card into your phone/tablet/computer
1. Open the MSET9 Installer application
1. Tap `Inject trigger file`
    + The button should become greyed out and `Remove trigger file` become [highlighted](/images/screenshots/mset9/remove-trigger-highlighted.png)
1. Reinsert your SD card into your console **without pressing any buttons or touching the screen**
1. If the exploit was successful, you will have booted into SafeB9SInstaller 
    + If you get a red screen or the console gets stuck on a loading screen, follow the [troubleshooting guide](troubleshooting-mset9)

### Section III - Installing boot9strap

In this section, you will install custom firmware onto your console.

1. When prompted, input the key combo given on the top screen to install boot9strap
    + If a step on the lower screen has red-colored text, and you are not prompted to input a key combo, [follow this troubleshooting guide](troubleshooting-mset9)
1. Once it is complete, press (A) to reboot your console
<!--@include: ./_include/configure-luma3ds.md -->

### Section IV - Removing MSET9

In this section, you will remove MSET9 to prevent further issues and to restore your user data (games, themes, etc). (This will not remove the custom firmware that you have just installed.)

::: danger

Do NOT skip this section! If you skip it, applications may crash unexpectedly and you will encounter errors on the next page!

:::

1. Power off your console
1. Insert your SD card into your phone/tablet/computer
1. Open the MSET9 Installer application
1. Tap `Remove MSET9`
1. Close the MSET9 Installer application

<!--@include: ./_include/luma3ds-installed-note.md -->

___

::: danger

Did you follow Section IV (Removing MSET9)? That section is MANDATORY!

:::

::: tip

Continue to [Finalizing Setup](finalizing-setup)

:::
