docs/installing-boot9strap-(super-skaterhax).md, before:

---
head: [
    ['script', {src: '/assets/js/common.js'}],
    ['script', {src: '/assets/js/skater-link.js'}],
    ['script', {src: '/assets/js/link-common.js'}],
]
---

# Installing boot9strap (super-skaterhax)

::: danger

This method is currently **not working** due to server-side SSL certificate changes. The timeline for a fix is unknown. In the meantime, follow [Installing boot9strap (MSET9)](installing-boot9strap-(mset9)) instead.

:::

::: details Technical Details (optional)

For technical details on the exploits that you will be using on this page, see [here](https://github.com/zoogie/super-skaterhax).

:::

### Compatibility Notes

Super-skaterhax (when used to launch the Homebrew Launcher) is compatible with New models on version 11.15.0 and above in all regions.

::: warning

The instructions provided only apply to the New 3DS, New 3DS XL, and New 2DS XL. Please ensure that the console you are modding is a New 3DS, New 3DS XL, or New 2DS XL before continuing.

:::

### What You Need

* The [Super-skaterhax](https://skater.nintendohomebrew.com) zip for your console's region and system version

#### Section I - Prep Work

In this section, you will copy the files needed to trigger both super-skaterhax and the Homebrew Launcher.

1. Power off your console
1. Insert your SD card into your computer
1. Copy everything from the Super-skaterhax `.zip` to the root of your SD card, overwriting any existing files

    ::: info

    ![](/images/screenshots/skaterhax/skater-root-layout.png)

    :::

1. Reinsert your SD card into your console
1. Power on your console
1. Launch System Settings
1. Select "Other Settings"
1. Navigate to "Profile" -> "Region Settings"
    + These settings will be temporarily changed to increase the success rate of the exploit
    + You can restore your region settings back to normal once you have finished this page
    + If you get a [warning](/images/screenshots/skaterhax/country-change-notice.png) that says you will lose access to Nintendo Network ID features, you can safely select OK to continue
1. Select the following options according to your console's region ([image](/images/screenshots/skaterhax/skater-lang.png))
    + USA: United States, Do Not Set
    + EUR: United Kingdom, Do Not Set
    + JPN: 日本, 設定しない
    + KOR: 대한민국, 설정하지 않음
1. Exit System Settings

#### Section II - super-skaterhax

In this section, you will visit the browser exploit webpage, which will launch the Homebrew Launcher.

::: info

If you haven't already, make sure you have a working Internet connection set up on your console.

:::

1. On the HOME Menu, press the Left and Right shoulder buttons at the same time to open the camera
    + If you are unable to open the camera, open the Internet Browser and manually type the URL instead (`https://zoogie.github.io/web/super/` for EUR/USA/JPN, `https://zoogie.github.io/web/korea` for KOR)
1. Tap the QR code button and scan one of the following QR codes for your console's region [here](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/28328903/226086338-585bfdac-0aac-44c0-b413-89206d2815d8.png)
    + If you get a security certificate warning, please ensure that the system date is today's
1. Press (Select) to open the bookmark tab
    + If your (Select) button does not respond, tap the star icon on the bottom-left corner of the screen
1. Tap "Bookmark this page"
1. Press (B) once to return to the browser
1. Press (ZR) to open the tab list
    + If your (ZR) button does not respond, tap the two overlapped squares near the bottom-right corner of the screen
1. Make sure that the only tab open is the super-skaterhax website
    + This tab should be highlighted in blue on the tab list
    + If other tabs are open, close them
1. Press (B) once to return to the browser
1. Press (Start) to open the context menu
    + If your (Start) button does not respond, tap the 3-line menu on the bottom-right corner of the screen
1. Tap on "Settings"
1. Tap on "Delete Cookies"
1. Press (A) to continue
1. Press (Home) to return to the HOME Menu, then immediately press (A) to launch the browser again
1. Select the "GO GO!" button on the top of the bottom screen
1. Press (A) to dismiss the [popup](/images/screenshots/skaterhax/skater-popup.png)
    + If your console freezes on a yellow screen, hold the POWER button until it turns off, then retry this section
    + If your console freezes on a red screen, hold the POWER button until it turns off, redo step 3 of Section II, then retry this section
    + If your console [shows the word Text on the top-left corner of the bottom screen](/images/screenshots/skaterhax/skater-old3ds.png), you have an Old 3DS and this exploit **will not work on your device**. If this is the case, you should follow [MSET9](installing-boot9strap-(mset9)) instead
    + If you get another error, try again up to 5 times, and if it still doesn't work, [follow this troubleshooting guide](troubleshooting-super-skaterhax)
1. Your console will have booted into the Homebrew Launcher
1. Launch nimdsphax from the list of homebrew
1. If the exploit was successful, you will have booted into SafeB9SInstaller
    + If your console freezes on a red or green screen, hold the POWER button until it turns off, then retry this section
    + This may take up to five attempts

#### Section III - Installing boot9strap

In this section, you will install custom firmware onto your console.

1. When prompted, input the key combo given on the top screen to install boot9strap
    + If a step on the lower screen has red-colored text, and you are not prompted to input a key combo, [follow this troubleshooting guide](troubleshooting-super-skaterhax)
1. Once it is complete, press (A) to reboot your console
<!--@include: ./_include/configure-luma3ds.md -->

<!--@include: ./_include/luma3ds-installed-note.md -->

___

::: info

You may now restore your region settings back to normal.

:::

::: tip

Continue to [Finalizing Setup](finalizing-setup)

:::

Commit message:

skater: add distracting image
so that people who try to follow the skaterhax guide notice the really big image

docs/installing-boot9strap-(super-skaterhax).md, after:

---
head: [
    ['script', {src: '/assets/js/common.js'}],
    ['script', {src: '/assets/js/skater-link.js'}],
    ['script', {src: '/assets/js/link-common.js'}],
]
---

# Installing boot9strap (super-skaterhax)

::: danger

# This method is currently **not working** due to server-side SSL certificate changes. The timeline for a fix is unknown. In the meantime, follow [Installing boot9strap (MSET9)](installing-boot9strap-(mset9)) instead.

[![distraction so that people don't look at the rest of the page](/images/distraction.gif)](installing-boot9strap-(mset9))

:::

::: details Technical Details (optional)

For technical details on the exploits that you will be using on this page, see [here](https://github.com/zoogie/super-skaterhax).

:::

### Compatibility Notes

Super-skaterhax (when used to launch the Homebrew Launcher) is compatible with New models on version 11.15.0 and above in all regions.

::: warning

The instructions provided only apply to the New 3DS, New 3DS XL, and New 2DS XL. Please ensure that the console you are modding is a New 3DS, New 3DS XL, or New 2DS XL before continuing.

:::

### What You Need

* The [Super-skaterhax](https://skater.nintendohomebrew.com) zip for your console's region and system version

#### Section I - Prep Work

In this section, you will copy the files needed to trigger both super-skaterhax and the Homebrew Launcher.

1. Power off your console
1. Insert your SD card into your computer
1. Copy everything from the Super-skaterhax `.zip` to the root of your SD card, overwriting any existing files

    ::: info

    ![](/images/screenshots/skaterhax/skater-root-layout.png)

    :::

1. Reinsert your SD card into your console
1. Power on your console
1. Launch System Settings
1. Select "Other Settings"
1. Navigate to "Profile" -> "Region Settings"
    + These settings will be temporarily changed to increase the success rate of the exploit
    + You can restore your region settings back to normal once you have finished this page
    + If you get a [warning](/images/screenshots/skaterhax/country-change-notice.png) that says you will lose access to Nintendo Network ID features, you can safely select OK to continue
1. Select the following options according to your console's region ([image](/images/screenshots/skaterhax/skater-lang.png))
    + USA: United States, Do Not Set
    + EUR: United Kingdom, Do Not Set
    + JPN: 日本, 設定しない
    + KOR: 대한민국, 설정하지 않음
1. Exit System Settings

#### Section II - super-skaterhax

In this section, you will visit the browser exploit webpage, which will launch the Homebrew Launcher.

::: info

If you haven't already, make sure you have a working Internet connection set up on your console.

:::

1. On the HOME Menu, press the Left and Right shoulder buttons at the same time to open the camera
    + If you are unable to open the camera, open the Internet Browser and manually type the URL instead (`https://zoogie.github.io/web/super/` for EUR/USA/JPN, `https://zoogie.github.io/web/korea` for KOR)
1. Tap the QR code button and scan one of the following QR codes for your console's region [here](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/28328903/226086338-585bfdac-0aac-44c0-b413-89206d2815d8.png)
    + If you get a security certificate warning, please ensure that the system date is today's
1. Press (Select) to open the bookmark tab
    + If your (Select) button does not respond, tap the star icon on the bottom-left corner of the screen
1. Tap "Bookmark this page"
1. Press (B) once to return to the browser
1. Press (ZR) to open the tab list
    + If your (ZR) button does not respond, tap the two overlapped squares near the bottom-right corner of the screen
1. Make sure that the only tab open is the super-skaterhax website
    + This tab should be highlighted in blue on the tab list
    + If other tabs are open, close them
1. Press (B) once to return to the browser
1. Press (Start) to open the context menu
    + If your (Start) button does not respond, tap the 3-line menu on the bottom-right corner of the screen
1. Tap on "Settings"
1. Tap on "Delete Cookies"
1. Press (A) to continue
1. Press (Home) to return to the HOME Menu, then immediately press (A) to launch the browser again
1. Select the "GO GO!" button on the top of the bottom screen
1. Press (A) to dismiss the [popup](/images/screenshots/skaterhax/skater-popup.png)
    + If your console freezes on a yellow screen, hold the POWER button until it turns off, then retry this section
    + If your console freezes on a red screen, hold the POWER button until it turns off, redo step 3 of Section II, then retry this section
    + If your console [shows the word Text on the top-left corner of the bottom screen](/images/screenshots/skaterhax/skater-old3ds.png), you have an Old 3DS and this exploit **will not work on your device**. If this is the case, you should follow [MSET9](installing-boot9strap-(mset9)) instead
    + If you get another error, try again up to 5 times, and if it still doesn't work, [follow this troubleshooting guide](troubleshooting-super-skaterhax)
1. Your console will have booted into the Homebrew Launcher
1. Launch nimdsphax from the list of homebrew
1. If the exploit was successful, you will have booted into SafeB9SInstaller
    + If your console freezes on a red or green screen, hold the POWER button until it turns off, then retry this section
    + This may take up to five attempts

#### Section III - Installing boot9strap

In this section, you will install custom firmware onto your console.

1. When prompted, input the key combo given on the top screen to install boot9strap
    + If a step on the lower screen has red-colored text, and you are not prompted to input a key combo, [follow this troubleshooting guide](troubleshooting-super-skaterhax)
1. Once it is complete, press (A) to reboot your console
<!--@include: ./_include/configure-luma3ds.md -->

<!--@include: ./_include/luma3ds-installed-note.md -->

___

::: info

You may now restore your region settings back to normal.

:::

::: tip

Continue to [Finalizing Setup](finalizing-setup)

:::
