docs/troubleshooting.md, before:

# Troubleshooting

This page serves a landing page for troubleshooting resources that we offer for commonly encountered issues. Click on the link corresponding to the page you are following to explore it.

If you're unable to fix your issue, ask for help at [Nintendo Homebrew on Discord](https://discord.gg/MWxPgEp). If your issue is missing and you know the solution, [let us know!](https://github.com/hacks-guide/Guide_3DS/issues)

::: tip

**Table of Contents**

* [Installing boot9strap (Soundhax)](troubleshooting-soundhax)
* [Installing boot9strap (MSET9)](troubleshooting-mset9)
* [Installing boot9strap (super-skaterhax)](troubleshooting-super-skaterhax)
* [Installing boot9strap (ntrboot)](troubleshooting-ntrboot)
* [Installing boot9strap (safecerthax)](troubleshooting-safecerthax)
* [Installing boot9strap (SSLoth-Browser)](troubleshooting-ssloth-browser)
* [Finalizing Setup](troubleshooting-finalizing-setup)

* [A9LH to B9S](troubleshooting-a9lh-to-b9s)
* [Updating B9S](troubleshooting-updating-b9s)

---

* [Post-Install](troubleshooting-post-install)

:::

Commit message:

TEMPORARY: Notice for NH links
NH server link was disabled by Discord, emergency mitigation

docs/troubleshooting.md, after:

# Troubleshooting

This page serves a landing page for troubleshooting resources that we offer for commonly encountered issues. Click on the link corresponding to the page you are following to explore it.

If you're unable to fix your issue, ask for help at [Nintendo Homebrew on Discord](https://discord.gg/MWxPgEp). **Note**: We are aware that invites are currently disabled for this server and are working to resolve this issue.

If your issue is missing and you know the solution, [let us know!](https://github.com/hacks-guide/Guide_3DS/issues)

::: tip

**Table of Contents**

* [Installing boot9strap (Soundhax)](troubleshooting-soundhax)
* [Installing boot9strap (MSET9)](troubleshooting-mset9)
* [Installing boot9strap (super-skaterhax)](troubleshooting-super-skaterhax)
* [Installing boot9strap (ntrboot)](troubleshooting-ntrboot)
* [Installing boot9strap (safecerthax)](troubleshooting-safecerthax)
* [Installing boot9strap (SSLoth-Browser)](troubleshooting-ssloth-browser)
* [Finalizing Setup](troubleshooting-finalizing-setup)

* [A9LH to B9S](troubleshooting-a9lh-to-b9s)
* [Updating B9S](troubleshooting-updating-b9s)

---

* [Post-Install](troubleshooting-post-install)

:::
