docs/updating-b9s.md, before:

---
title: "Updating B9S"
---

{% include toc title="Table of Contents" %}

### Required Reading

This page is for existing boot9strap users to update their installation of boot9strap to the latest version.

### What You Need

* The latest release of [SafeB9SInstaller](https://github.com/d0k3/SafeB9SInstaller/releases/download/v0.0.7/SafeB9SInstaller-20170605-122940.zip) (direct download)
* The latest release of [boot9strap](https://github.com/SciresM/boot9strap/releases/download/1.4/boot9strap-1.4.zip) (direct download)
* The latest release of [Luma3DS](https://github.com/LumaTeam/Luma3DS/releases/latest) (the Luma3DS `.zip` file)

### Instructions

#### Section I - Prep Work

For all steps in this section, overwrite any existing files on your SD card.
{: .notice--info}

1. Insert your SD card into your computer
1. Create a folder named `boot9strap` on the root of your SD card
1. Copy `boot9strap.firm` and `boot9strap.firm.sha` from the boot9strap `.zip` to the `/boot9strap/` folder on your SD card
1. Copy `SafeB9SInstaller.firm` from the SafeB9SInstaller `.zip` to the root of your SD card and rename it to `boot.firm`
1. Reinsert your SD card into your console

    ![]({{ "/images/screenshots/updateb9s-root-layout.png" | absolute_url }})
    {: .notice--info}


#### Section II - Installing boot9strap

1. Power on your console
    + This should automatically launch SafeB9SInstaller
{%- include_relative include/install-boot9strap-safeb9sinstaller.txt isbootfirm="true" inline="true" %}

#### Section III - Update Luma3DS

1. Insert your SD card into your computer
1. Copy `boot.firm` and `boot.3dsx` from the Luma3DS `.zip` to the root of your SD card, replacing the existing file
1. Reinsert your SD card into your console
1. Power on your console
1. If your console has booted into the Luma3DS configuration menu, press (Start) to save and reboot
    + Luma3DS configuration menu are settings for the Luma3DS custom firmware. Many of these settings may be useful for customization or debugging
    + For the purpose of this guide, these settings will be left on default settings

___

### Continue to [Finalizing Setup](finalizing-setup)
{: .notice--primary}

Commit message:

docs: port to VitePress
Things that happen in this shameless squash:
- Removed 404 page
  - It doesn't work in VitePress and making it work in VitePress needs
    some invasive hack in the theme that I'm not willing to do
  - The default is more than enough, though
- Moved consoleVersionSelect include to another directory
  - This avoids being uploaded to Crowdin for translation
- Inline all SafeB9SInstaller includes
  - Not only do parameterized includes not work, but if/else statements
    don't work at all
- The sysupdate include parameter hasn't been used since MSET9, so it
  actually works just fine without any parameters. Hooray(?)
- Move mset9-chorus to an include, that logic doesn't work in VitePress
- Removed Get Started button from homepage, it breaks translations
- Tables in get-started are now shown by default; it seems VitePress really does
  not want us to use inline script. So we cannot enable it upon
  realizing that the browser is JS capable
- Include parameters are now in frontmatter to allow translation
- Hacked in a bunch of CSS values kanged from the old theme to make it
  look not stupid
- Drop headers down one level to make table of contents work

docs/updating-b9s.md, after:

# Updating B9S

## Required Reading

This page is for existing boot9strap users to update their installation of boot9strap to the latest version.

## What You Need

* The latest release of [SafeB9SInstaller](https://github.com/d0k3/SafeB9SInstaller/releases/download/v0.0.7/SafeB9SInstaller-20170605-122940.zip) (direct download)
* The latest release of [boot9strap](https://github.com/SciresM/boot9strap/releases/download/1.4/boot9strap-1.4.zip) (direct download)
* The latest release of [Luma3DS](https://github.com/LumaTeam/Luma3DS/releases/latest) (the Luma3DS `.zip` file)

## Instructions

### Section I - Prep Work

::: info

For all steps in this section, overwrite any existing files on your SD card.

:::

1. Insert your SD card into your computer
1. Create a folder named `boot9strap` on the root of your SD card
1. Copy `boot9strap.firm` and `boot9strap.firm.sha` from the boot9strap `.zip` to the `/boot9strap/` folder on your SD card
1. Copy `SafeB9SInstaller.firm` from the SafeB9SInstaller `.zip` to the root of your SD card and rename it to `boot.firm`
1. Reinsert your SD card into your console

    ::: info

    ![](/images/screenshots/updateb9s-root-layout.png)

    :::

### Section II - Installing boot9strap

1. Power on your console
    + This should automatically launch SafeB9SInstaller
1. When prompted, input the key combo given on the top screen to install boot9strap
    + If a step on the lower screen has red-colored text, and you are not prompted to input a key combo, [follow this troubleshooting guide](troubleshooting#issues-with-safeb9sinstaller)
1. Once it is completed, force your console to power off by holding down the power button
    + Your console will only boot to the SafeB9SInstaller screen until the next section is completed

### Section III - Update Luma3DS

1. Insert your SD card into your computer
1. Copy `boot.firm` and `boot.3dsx` from the Luma3DS `.zip` to the root of your SD card, replacing the existing file
1. Reinsert your SD card into your console
1. Power on your console
1. If your console has booted into the Luma3DS configuration menu, press (Start) to save and reboot
    + Luma3DS configuration menu are settings for the Luma3DS custom firmware. Many of these settings may be useful for customization or debugging
    + For the purpose of this guide, these settings will be left on default settings

___

::: tip

Continue to [Finalizing Setup](finalizing-setup)

:::
